The structure of global tariff rates suggests that international trade is relatively free and fair. Does this conclusion extend to non-tariff barriers to trade? I have shown that the policy barriers to trade implied by observed prices, trade flows, and freight costs are quite large and are implemented in a discriminatory manner. In particular, developed countries implement high non-tariff barriers to trade and tend to discriminate against their less-developed trading partners.

I should qualify these conclusions on three counts. First, like most studies of international trade, they are model-dependent. My approach accounts for trade in intermediate inputs, but does so rather bluntly. Global value chains are complex and respond non-linearly to changes in trade costs [@Yi2003], a feature not captured here. The nested CES preferences ascribed to consumers are also rather rigid. This inflexibility may affect the proportion of distortions attributed to trade costs, rather than consumer heterogeneity, a point noted by @Waugh2010. Second, my conclusions depend on the accuracy of the ICP's price data, and on the assumption that producers face the same prices as consumers. If the price level in Japan is factually less than twice that of Malaysia, Japan's implied policy barriers to trade will also fall. Similarly, if intermediate input prices differ systematically from the prices of final goods, this will change my conclusions on the magnitude of policy barriers to trade. Finally, the simple calibration exercise conducted here cannot speak to uncertainty about the magnitude of policy barriers to trade. From the perspective of Equation \ref{eq:tau}, measurement error in prices and trade flows and estimation error in the trade elasticity and predicted trade costs will aggregate to produce a window of uncertainty the true value of $\tau_{ij}$. Some combination of better theory and better data will strengthen the precision of the conclusions made here. 